[Music]
what to do if your phone gets wet Oh No
we've all been there jumped in a pool
without remembering to take your phone
out of your pocket
oops doing dishes and dropped your phone
in a bowl of soapy water
yikes caught out in the rain without an
umbrella ah man water is your phone's
worst enemy capable of wiping out all
your pictures and stored data what can
you do to fix this dire situation relax
here at bright side we've put together a
list of things you can do to try to save
your phone there's a good chance you can
resuscitate your drown phone without
doing mouth-to-mouth number one take it
out of the liquid immediately okay
you've probably already thought of this
one but in case you didn't grab your
phone immediately the more exposure your
phone has to the water the more water
will get inside the case and damaging
internal components so the sooner you
fish it out better it's easy to get
freaked out the second your phone
touches water you think that it's ruined
that's not the case lots of factors can
determine how much damage exposure to
water will do to your phone if the water
is particularly clean for instance that
may cause less damage salt water is
especially hard on a phone a high salt
or sugar concentration in the water such
as if you drop your phone in a glass of
soda will cause more damage it's even
worse if salt or sugar gets trapped in
your phone as they become corrosive and
can damage the components number two
turn it off your phone will probably
turn itself off as soon as it falls into
liquid if it doesn't make sure you turn
it off immediately if the power stays on
the phone runs the risk of
short-circuiting which will cause more
damage to the mechanisms inside
if the phone is asleep leave it asleep
if the power button doesn't work or it's
taken too long you might be able to take
out the battery to shut it off speaking
of which
number three remove the battery if you
have an iPhone or another phone that
doesn't let you remove the battery skip
this step but if you can take the
battery out do it immediately
removing the energy supply will help
prevent the phone from being fried
worried about shocks cell phone
batteries typically do not carry enough
electrical currents to hurt you most
electric shocks involving consumer
electronics have to do with overloaded
power outlets frayed cords or bad wiring
not the devices themselves whatever you
do do not plug your phone in while it's
wet your wall outlet carries a much
stronger current than the phone battery
not only will plugging in a wet phone
almost certainly destroy the phone but
you could shock yourself as well or
start a fire if you're really worried
about shocking yourself use a pair of
rubber gloves
number four remove the SIM card memory
card and all peripherals empty out your
phone take out the SIM card and memory
card if you can an iPhone will only
allow you to remove the SIM card so do
that unplug your headphones remove all
the covers and plugs that cover the
charging port and phone port or any gap
or slots in the phone
these can trap moisture inside the phone
or be damaged themselves some of these
peripherals might need to be dried as
well it's less likely that they'll
suffer as much damage from water as your
phone will because their electronics
usually aren't as complex for example
your headphones will probably be just
fine driving with a towel remove the
earpieces shake out the moisture and let
them dry on their own for 48 hours for a
SIM card short exposure is unlikely to
damage the card dry it off and leave it
on a paper towel overnight the same goes
for a memory card the
he is to take it out of the water and
let it dry number five dry the phone
with a cloth or microfiber towel Pat
your phone gently dry with a cloth or
microfiber towel you should avoid using
paper as particles can come loose and
clog up the ports of the phone that
takes care of drying the external
surface of the phone but what if the
moisture got inside now it's time to get
creative number six don't use an oven
microwave or hairdryer who doesn't love
a good explosion right well don't put
your phone in an oven or a microwave
unless you want to cause an electrical
storm that will destroy your phone and
make a huge mess of your kitchen there's
a reason we don't expose metal to
microwave radiation you probably already
thought of that but consider something
similar but less obvious hairdryers some
people swear by using a hairdryer to
evaporate moisture in their phone but
watch out the heat produced by your
hairdryer can cause significant damage
to the internal components of your phone
and vaporizing the moisture inside the
phone can just spread it further try
something else
number seven gently shake your phone dry
shaking your phone can get rid of a lot
of those pesky droplets of moisture
stuck inside the phone be sure not to
drop the phone while you're doing this
this won't be enough to dry out your
phone however shaking it only gets rid
of the surface moisture and there might
still be moisture inside but you need to
get rid of before you turn the phone on
you're going to need to do some work
number eight put the phone in a vacuum
bag use suction to extract water stuck
inside your phone especially in those
parts that are tough to access unless
you're in a science lab you probably
don't have a vacuum generating tube
though if you do try that otherwise put
the phone in a plastic bag and suck out
the air with a vacuum cleaner or shop
vac hopefully this will suck the like
right out of the inner parts of the
phone number nine put it in a bowl of
rice or another absorbent material yeah
this one sounds like a myth but it's
100% true since you won't be able to
drive the internal parts of the phone by
hand you want to put your phone in
something that will pull the moisture
out uncooked rice is naturally absorbent
and water can flow right out of the
phone and into the rice put the phone
and all its parts in a bowl or jar of
rice and leave it there fried least 48
hours or longer if you're not sure it's
drier
another material specifically designed
to keep things dry is the gel substance
you find in silica sessions like those
little packets you find in plastic
containers of vitamins shoeboxes or dry
foods like jerky surrounding your phone
with a few of these packets might do the
trick
careful do not tear them open or consume
them we all know salt absorbs water but
do not use salt for this purpose a salt
solution will corrode your phone's
components sand works too but the grains
can be fine enough that they get inside
your phone's ports and cause more damage
you can also use kitty litter but don't
use an active litter box obviously
number 10
clean the phone with rubbing alcohol if
you submerge your phone in something
other than water such as mud coffee soda
juice spaghetti sauce or something gross
you may need to do some manual cleaning
if you're going to regain functionality
disassemble the phone and swab the phone
clean was isopropyl or rubbing alcohol
you can also try submerging your phone
in circuit safe cleaner or pure grain
alcohol which will absorb the moisture
clean any impurities and ultimately
evaporate without leave
conductive residue if you give your
phone an alcohol bath dry it as normal
for at least 48 hours number 11 store
your phone in a safe dry place this
probably seems obvious but the last
thing you want is your phone to be
exposed to more moisture while it's
drying don't keep the phone in a jar of
rice next to the sink or washing machine
for instance where accidents can happen
put it in a cupboard or a room with no
sink or window if the jar has a lid put
the lid on number 12 wait
phones need time to dry even if you
don't put it in an absorbent material
you need to wait and give your phone
time to dry out before you try to use it
again
even if a single water particle remains
in the phone it could lead to
significant damage when you try to turn
it on it is very very important to give
your phone at least two days to dry
you're going to have to live without a
phone temporarily what to do read a book
go outside catch up on some work if
you've been procrastinating hang out
with friends but make it clear they
can't text or call you right now tell
jokes about not having a phone which can
make you feel a lot better and distract
you from worrying about whether your
phone has been saved number 13
while you're waiting check your warranty
water damaged voids most cell phone
warranty plans because the manufacturer
often cannot plan for submersion events
it's possible however that you have your
warranty through a third-party vendor
such as asuri on or SquareTrade they
might cover accidental spills or
submersion if so file a claim
immediately even if the phone appears to
be working as it's always possible that
it will manifest damage leader number 14
turn it on and cross your fingers once
you're sure your phone is dry you can
plug it back in and try to turn it on if
it powers up you're in business if
not well it's probably fried and not
going to come back we're not gonna
sugarcoat it for you
water can inflict catastrophic damage on
your phone even if it comes back it
might not work in quite the same way as
before water damage can lead to
rebooting loops where your phone tries
to boot up fails a particular process
and restarts persistent freezing
distorted images malfunctioning
processes or any number of hazards but
we here at bright side are very
optimistic and hope for a positive
outcome if you've done everything you
can to maximize your chances of a
rescued phone then there's a chance your
phone will work out fine you might be
surprised
well did you manage to rescue your phone
after its little dip is it coming back
on malfunctioning in some way tell us
about it in the comments below and don't
forget to Like share and hit that
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
you